METAR Decoder Software Package Library



ABOUT THE MDSP LIBRARY

The MDSP Library provides a programmer with two functions, the major one
being decode_metar, which decodes a METAR into C structures provided by the
library. Also print_decoded_metar, which prints out a decoded METAR structure.

The MDSP was written by Carl McCalla and released to the public by the
US National Weather Service. The MDSP Library is the original MDSP
modified to compile and run on *NIX systems.

Please read the file README.MDSP included in this package. It's the
README that comes with the original MDSP from the NWS. You must read the
LICENSE before using this program (it's the LGPL).


COMPILING

Switch into the mdsplib directory and run "make". If you also want the
test program to be produced, run "make metar_test" instead. Both commands
will produce "metar.a". This is the library. The header file for this
library is "metar.h". The test application will be named "dmetar", it
takes no parameters.



USING

Copy the header file "metar.h" and the library "metar.a" into your
project's directory. Include "metar.h", and use the functions and
structures as defined in that file. Or do a "make install" as root, and
it will install the library in /usr/local/lib and the header in
/usr/local/include.


FLIGHTAWARE

FlightAware has made a number of fairly important bug fixes
to mdsplib over the years.  Also we've smoothed things out, expanded
function names past fifteen characters and you know, stuff like that
to improve readability.

As the sourceforge project that's reported to be mdsplib's home seems
pretty inactive and isn't configured to receive bug reports or patches,
and as we're using git internally, it was ever so easy to put this repo
on github.

As of September 2014 mdsplib can ingest more than 350,000,000 METARs
issued between 2008 and 2014 without crashing.  The same can not
be said for unpatched mdsplib.

SECURITY

mdsplib was written in the early 90s and is not up to date with current
security practices for C coding.  Specifically it generally assumes
that target strings are large enough to contain whatever is being
assembled into them.

PARSING FAILURES

mdsplib has other problems like because of how it parses and how it is
structured in many cases if there is more than one report of something
in the remarks, all the remarks pertaining to that thing will be thrown
away.  That's not good and it's not going to be easy to change it.
We're thinking about what to do about it.


ORIGINAL CONTACT

If you find any bugs/errors or otherwise have questions about the MDSP
Library let me know. I'd also welcome any changes and additions to the
code.

Eric McCarthy <eric@limulus.net>


